listen I had no idea that Jared way of
My Chemical Romance had written the
comic book the show is based on Lister
who was writing graphic novels even
before Helena when I was a young boy I
had even collected some of these issues
which made me feel so dumb because when
I heard their last album I legit during
that time didn't even connect that he
had written the killjoys comic I just
thought it was cool he was a comic fan
well thinks of Squarespace I went back
and read the two full series that are
out so far read the free one-off issues
that were like inspired by MySpace binge
the series over in order for me to break
down to you why I consider this a
Netflix buffet let me explain
so this show is random I don't mean that
in a bad way I mean it more in the way
that if you're tired of the Marvel
formula then here's your winner mainly
cuz it doesn't stop to explain anything
to you like it's one of those shows
where it's waiting for you to catch up
and realize what's going on even when I
was reading the comic like there was
things that would just pop out like the
wildest names for the issue titles which
I loved because I would just stare at
them and think bro is are these Fall Out
Boy songs but when I say that the show
is weird and that I wasn't ready for it
I mean I went into this thing dry before
I had even read the comics and got hit
with these clips a girl flirting with a
boy before she goes for a swim only to
come out and conceive she went into
straight labor even though just a lap
ago she wasn't even pregnant a
thirteen-year-old who's really 85 years
old because he's time-traveling this
dude walking around with the body of a
Minecraft character looking like he
loves it a damn Butler who no one even
says anything about the fact that he's a
chimpanzee and then this thing sorry
you're in there for so long dollars no
I'm not chunk working so trust me when I
say that this is a trippy series one
that I consider a buffet because any of
these characters can have their own
series going on
they all have enough to be fleshed out
they all kind of feel like they're
different genres so when the Umbrella
Academy matches all of these up together
and gives you glimpses it kind of feels
like you put in an uber eat set seven
different restaurants and you got
delivered bits of each of the
restaurants which is dope but it's also
like a really overwhelming intense thing
of flavors so I can definitely see
people thinking it's a masterpiece while
others will think that
has the BBS effect of having way too
many setups meanwhile my cartoon selves
over here just trying to keep up and I
know everyone's giving it the x-men
comparison
especially when you have you know Kitty
Pryde going all white Phoenix in the
show but this is more like a series of
unfortunate events because they also
have a character named claws like I said
randomly in 1989 43 women become
pregnant who weren't pregnant before and
then this random dude who may or may not
be an alien comes in to collect as many
as he can and scoops up seven of these
kids that's how this show starts now I'm
pretty sure we'll be seeing more of the
other 36 kids that didn't get collected
in the comics they kind of allude to the
fact that a bunch of the kids had just
been like left alone and they died and
that's why Hargreaves was only able to
collect and I really do mean collect
seven children so for the ones that did
survive they may become villains or they
may become allies there's even a theory
on why this incident happened which I'll
cover later but that's something that I
don't think will be answered until like
season 5 but while the whole franchise
can be told just covering the umbrella
Academy's childhood right all of the
kids just growing up with their
superpowers and how they had to deal
with the stranger of a father this show
decides not let's just jump years into
the future when they've all left the
Academy there's a lot of storylines
going on so I just want to break down
the main one so things will get too
confusing we have a father who again is
an alien from another planet pretending
to be a billionaire here on earth who
knew the world was going to end and so
he collected seven children with
superpowers supposedly raised them the
way he did for a purpose and then
orchestrates his own death in the
presence in order to reunite all of his
children that have gone away so that
they can come together and save the
apocalypse that's going to happen an
eight day
thinking as for watching about now it
gets deeper and there's so many more
things going on so to break down the
Academy I would kind of look at it from
the hills House perspective and where
their family formula or the way that
they kind of broke down the siblings was
that they each represented a different
stage of grief well you could kind of
break down the Umbrella Academy by their
varying personality types there is
number one who's also known as Luther or
his you know superhero name space boy
his power is superhuman strength with
absolutely no brains because this dude
was duped by his dad into becoming an
astronaut so he could go live on the
moon
and is that they didn't even have a
mission for him he literally sent him
off to the moon for nothing
Luther also thinks he's a Steve Rogers
of the group and wants to lead not
realizing he looks like Beast Boy again
because he followed daddy's orders got
super hurt on a mission and then his pop
injected him with some ape serum so he
could look like a Martian gorilla and
now look at him trying to get into this
car I'm gonna be honest with you
Luther ain't my favorite number two is
Diego also known as the Kraken who I
think is actually one of the better ones
he throws knives really well and is able
to hold his breath which is exactly the
power he needs when his ex who's a cop
won't get back together with him but
Manos will think he's a vigilante and
I'm pretty sure podcast but Cody Cohen
is off time so there's that number three
is the rumor also known as Allison and
she is the surely of the group her
superpower is listening to Adele and
then spreading rumors that actually do
come true
[Music]
but damn does she not know what's being
said about her she becomes an actress
who loses her child because she was
using her powers on her child and the ex
demands full custody is one of those
things were like yeah I may not like it
for other reasons mainly how she treated
Vanya but like you only met at these two
ladies for using their powers on
innocent children it wasn't like she
forced her kid to get her a beer while
she watched the game it was just a
lullaby a lullaby is just spells to fall
asleep anyways number four is Klaus also
known as the seance and he seems to be
like the crowd favorite his superpowers
include telekinesis and talking to the
dead but because he has PTSD
he's always either in rehab or getting
high which ruins his powers especially
if he's wearing shoes obviously dudes
like Ezra Miller and Olaf combined in my
opinion if they were both on meth
because sometimes he didn't work for me
and other times i legit thought he had
the coolest power i've ever seen in my
cartoon life number 5 doesn't even have
a name he's just known as the boy or
number 5 he can time travel and he was
missing for the 17 years when everyone
split up because he got stuck in the
aftermath of the apocalypse while time
jumping he gets involved with this
Adjustment Bureau for time who hires him
as a hit man and he gets to come back to
the present but in a kid's body even
though he's mentally fifty-eight
and oh yeah if you thought Fred from
Mayan legends weekd a lot this dude was
in a 30-year marriage to a man
while he was lost in time 30 years they
probably renewed their vows at some
point number six is named Ben also known
as the horror who was a shape-shifter
who was able to summon monsters from
other dimensions to be able to fight
super-dope power but sadly he dies at
what we believe is teenagers since we
haven't seen that clip yet but luckily
even though he's passed he gets to be a
part of the series cuz you know Klaus is
power allows him to talk to him then
there's number 7
Anya who has absolutely no superpowers
at all all she does is play the violin
she released the book just like in Hill
House with that tell-all about the
family that caused everyone to be mad at
her but there is definitely no bigger
backstory to the top billed actress
shown first at the end of every episode
there is now I think it's cool that
they're numbered based off the
millisecond they were born in which also
kind of sad that he did that and that
they're named the Umbrella Academy
because of the umbrella store that
reginald first bought when he arrived
here but being as dysfunctional as they
are it just makes everything more
difficult especially when you got these
two as well now cha-cha and hazel yes
there's more characters are
time-traveling assassins that were
picked out from book 2 of the comics and
changed a bit for season 1 originally
they were this crazy duel that warm ass
around torturing people just for the
hell of it and somehow I think they
nailed it for the show first off Mary I
will oblige to anything you want cuz I
don't know how you still look this great
or are making the career shifts that you
are my man hazel already played at
Kemper and my hunter sodium he's already
set the bar for creepy but when it comes
to their purpose
they've been commissioned to find number
5 and then they're also there to make
sure that they guard vanya during her
transition they kidnap Klaus along the
way hazel falls in love with donut lady
cha-cha kills Diego's ex hazel tries to
kill cha-cha and then they have and they
have dance parties
I mean like they really go dreamworks
animation finale with you multiple times
even though the ending to this one was
sick now bonnie is still playing her
violin and she's befriended a student of
hers who starts making carvings of
Vanya's face which I guess this dude
doesn't know anything about The Last of
Us but this guy starts actually creeping
and going into her house but Vanya's
never had a friend so she doesn't really
care number 5 then explains how he's
been working with this time commission
and how he made a deal with the handler
now in the comics the main goal of this
come
mission is to keep the timeline intact
like I said they're kind of like The
Adjustment Bureau who isn't really
looking to stop tragedies they just want
to make sure that everything stays in
order and so they turn number five into
their little hit man before he realizes
who exactly causes the apocalypse he's
been trying to stop Harold Jenkins
that's that's the creepy dude fine he's
been with five then goes back in time in
order to find Harold and pretty much
just dissolves the previous episodes
from ever happening so let's talk about
these two smashing and I personally
think these two are at the bottom of the
seven in my personal ranking you know
and and that includes having the dead
sibling over them I'm not saying that
their relationship adds to why I don't
like them but it definitely makes sense
why they would end up together obviously
they aren't blood-related so there's
this whole group out there cheering for
them to be together others think is way
too close for comfort especially if
they've been adopted like they're
looking at this couple going please
don't even dance in the sunlight I don't
really care about anything this dude
does cuz just look I mean it's like
Wilson Fitz from spider-verse and all
series though these guys were
brownnosers like that's the reason why I
just can't stand him like Luther got
stranded he got screwed he got scarred
by the things his dad told him to do he
still does dumb I haven't really touched
upon this robotic mom that they also
have who came about because Hargreaves
lost the real wife that he had and other
nannies couldn't keep up with the powers
the kids had so he just created his own
Rosie the maid but who's really
interesting is Pogo the eighth Butler
and I mention this because it connects
to Luther because it's the same team
from Planet of the Apes who designed him
which makes him look super cool when you
get fascinated with them but it's the
idea that there's an entire backstory
between this outfit of a monkey Butler
and his Batman and we don't know what
they did like Luthor gets injected at a
certain point with ape serum meaning
Poppa Hargreaves literally has been
monkeying around more than we think and
it just makes me wonder what else are
these two hiding the most annoying part
of these two though is how they treated
Vaughn you see it turns out that there's
a whole childhood that got suppress that
Vanya is now discovering there's a scene
where Harold Jenkins pulls a Jessie
Smollett which allows Vanya to be able
to for the first time realize what her
powers can actually do we then get these
flashbacks where we see that Reginald
did in fact know Vanya had power
in fact she had the most powerful powers
out of everyone and so he started
feeding her pills to suppress her man
then uses his other daughters powers to
make her forget things and believe that
she's normal he heard a feeling all
because he believes in himself to be
this majestic being who's overseeing
children's lives and manipulating their
powers because he thinks he knows best
some familiar Alison then decides to
confront Bonnie about this and tell the
truth but right when Ali was about to
pull her Rumer trick bonnie has lapsed
the words out of her mouth and oh oh she
actually slit her throat
good luck spreading rumors now you
snitch unexplained boy get out of here
you gettin into Luther being the primate
that he is decides to knock out Vanya
instead of being happy that his sister
has superpowers you know if she hurt the
girl you like but I mean the girl you
like still breathing how about I don't
know being happy you can stop the
apocalypse nope he instead locks her up
and takes his dad's advice you know
again the man who stranded you on the
moon and gave you a monkey body even if
you're right she needs our help and we
can't do that if she's locked in a cage
Go Diego Go now so I may hear me
complaining about Luther and think that
I'm just nitpicking that I'm just being
cynical that I can't get into the story
a boy I am fully in it I'm saying these
things about Luther because I'm
concerned about all the other characters
in this world like I'm volume 2 let me
just rewind a little bit
y'all do know that he was the last one
still slumming it at his house at his
parents house but in volume 2 this guy
finds a way to make his eighth body fat
it just sits on the couch for most of
that run loser if I ever find you on the
street I would hire someone to whoop
your butt so bad number five then
returns his lover to the Burlington Coat
Factory as they get prepared to stop
their sister who just escaped this
soundproof room
[Music]
we get this really cool flashback
montage for Anya and she walks around
the house remembering how they shunned
her and then she just blows it up now
let me be clear I don't think Vanya is
the villain here I know she killed Pogo
and that kind of sucks but a character
like Jenkins who was a more cliche
villain on the comic but here in the
show gets the Baron Zemo Syndrome effect
really where he's upset that they never
accepted him into the Academy even
though he was born on the same day just
wasn't a part of the 43 like what he
does that's evil well Vanya is is a
pressure cooker from bad parenting how
all seven of them are they finally
confront Vanya in their bowling shoes as
she reenact the climax of Eagle Eye and
legit turns into the white violin and
the comic she really becomes a violin
but here she's just a super-powered
musician who's about to destroy the
world when Allison fires a gun next to
her ear and the Flex her energy up to
the moon a much better ending that when
number five did in the country oh wow
number five then gets the idea to gather
everyone before they all get killed and
we see them all become teenagers and
then vanish to an unknown time period as
everyone else gets deeply in so now what
well I had my theories for the other 36
babies that were born you know some of
them may have died but I think that
there's remaining ones who could become
future villains or heroes there's also
the sequence in volume 2 where Klaus
meets God that was kind of fatal March 2
in the show with episode 7 but in the
book got straight-up tells him that the
43 were collectively the reincarnation
of Jesus Christ the Messiah himself now
I know what the hell that means but what
I do know is that there's a graphic
novel called punk-rock Jesus they all
gotta read if you like the series even a
little bit there's a chance season 2
could deal with the villain Perseus
who's this evil CEO whose father was
imprisoned by the Academy and so he's
seeking revenge
there's dr. termin who's kind of like
their kraken who was mentioned in
episode 7 and it'd be interesting to see
how they invert his cliches and his
minions
maybe the umbrella kids will go look for
their og parents or siblings maybe two
of them may in fact be twins as was
hinted in the show
is the storyline for season 2 gonna be
around JFK since that's what volume 2 is
about season
one kind of gave us a glimpse of it
being one of number Five's missions as
he was traveling back in time but could
get kind of tricky for starters this is
a real assassination so Netflix may
avoid it
it is also Netflix so probably not but I
just question what would be different if
JFK wasn't around like you know wouldn't
there'd not be a Reagan and Klaus would
be clean I don't know what I do know is
that the JFK storyline has one of the
craziest twists since the only way for
Alison to get her voice back since it's
been slit is to make a deal with that
time commission five was working with a
deal that forces her to go back in time
pretend to be Jackie Kennedy and tell
the president that she heard a rumor
that his head would explode and if y'all
have done any research on the physics of
that shooting that is an insane route to
go either way
Waze eyes on her winning series is set
up to be eight volumes long with the
show also aiming to go for eight seasons
they already have an outline for all
eight so they don't have to you know
Game of Thrones it but it's clear that
they're trusting the fans will want more
and that they're gonna be there that
it's going to be this big property one
that can get a spinoff just off number
five being lost in time one of number
one being a number two up in the moon
the real backstory to Reginald a whole
breakdown on the time commission
spin-offs for the other 36 pretty much a
never-ending selection of stories
because like I said it's a buffet thank
you guys for checking out this video and
a big thank you to Squarespace for
sponsoring it you know when we first
made our site we chose Squarespace
because we heard them in another YouTube
video and you 100% that they were the
ones to go with as a cartoon revamping a
site with all these up-to-date templates
makes it super easy to create a website
where we want to host all of our content
the fact that it's an all-in-one allows
us to post different things and it
allows us to hire writers to push more
articles and videos it's allowing us to
prepare a store to push LME merch get
24/7 assistance on our cartoony
developments and the way that it deals
with domains and transfers has been a
huge help with revitalizing the A to Z
Show calm so head over to Squarespace
calm for a free trial and when you're
ready to launch go to Squarespace comm
slash let me explain to save 10% off
your first purchase big shout out to
them for the support and a big shout out
to you guys as well for always watching
here's to know your thoughts on the show
I'm still so surprised how big the
fanbase is like I had no idea Aleta had
that many fans but lay I had even said
it in that video towards the ending I
said Aleta Pez are gonna come at me for
these two things guess what they did it
was about the eyes and I forget what
else I said I'm telling you right now
because most of the people who leave
these comments don't make it to the end
of the video there are people gonna call
me out on the Jarod weight thing and
sure I'll tell you right now that though
a if you knew Jared Wade did comics the
moment his pen touched the paper if you
knew it before anyone else and you know
what you are better than us you are
superior yeah that's I guess my only
response but you guys see those comments
but I'm curious to know for the people
who really loved this show where you
think it's gonna go what your theories
are the things that I may have missed
because again this show has so many
threads going on I'm curious on your
thoughts and I want to end this one
actually with a recommendation because
as I was watching the first episode
there is a Sundance movie called we are
little zombies and we are little zombies
as a movie that unless you know about it
it may go under your radar and you never
know anything about it
but this is a movie where I'm telling
you right now for the fans of umbrella
Academy if I'll serve one purpose I hope
it's this that I could put you onto
something else you are going to love we
are little zombies so definitely check
that out I'll be talking about that
movie a little bit more later but it is
like so in line with that these four
orphans who start a band called we are
little zombies and try to say right it's
crazy again thank you guys for watching
this video let me know your thoughts all
of that and rumor has it that you will
comment like and subscribe